#summary Taxonomy of the elements of the devops tool-chain

<wiki:toc max_depth="1" />

= Introduction =

The foundation of the devops tool-chain is the set tools themselves. Of particular interest is establishing a tool-chain taxonomy. What categories of tools are there? How do they correlate to the [SdlcPhases SDLC]? How are they ordered? Which are closely integrated with one-another, roughly compatible, or down-right disjoint? Which [QualitativeMetrics qualities] does each tool embody? Where does it fall short? What [Artifacts artifacts] do they produce?

This section presents a tabular taxonomy of Open Source tooling. 

= Categories =

The following section organizes tools by establishing distinct categories that stand in their own right and can also be described in terms of the [SdlcPhases SDLC phases]. Open Source examples of each tool type are included, with a brief description of what they do and a comparative assessment of the [QualitativeMetrics qualities] they deliver.

==Build==
===Ant===
|| *Description* || "[http://ant.apache.org Apache Ant] is a Java-based build tool.  In theory, it is kind of like make, without make's wrinkles" ||
|| *SDLC Phase* || [SdlcPhases#Build Build] ||
|| *Qualities* || ||
|| *Artifacts* || ||

===Maven===
|| *Description* || "[http://maven.apache.org Apache Maven] is a software project management and comprehension tool" ||
|| *SDLC Phase* || [SdlcPhases#Build Build] ||
|| *Qualities* || ||
|| *Artifacts* || ||

==Continuous Integration==

===CruiseControl===
|| *Description* || "[http://cruisecontrol.sourceforge.net CruiseControl] is both a continuous integration tool and an extensible framework for creating a custom continuous build process" ||
|| *SDLC Phase* || ||
|| *Qualities* || ||
|| *Artifacts* || ||

==Dependency Management==

==Packaging==

==Repository==
===Jackrabbit===
|| *Description* || "[http://jackrabbit.apache.org Apache Jackrabbit] is a fully conforming implementation of the Content Repository for Java Technology API (JCR, specified in JSR 170 and 283)" ||
|| *SDLC Phase* || ||
|| *Qualities* || ||
|| *Artifacts* || ||

===Nexus===
|| *Description* || "[http://nexus.sonatype.org Nexus] manages software artifacts required for development, deployment, and provisioning" ||
|| *SDLC Phase* || ||
|| *Qualities* || ||
|| *Artifacts* || ||

==Authentication==

==Content Distribution==

==Schema Management==

==Monitoring==

==Service Management==

==Code Coverage==

==IDE==

==Version Control System==

===Subversion===

|| *Description* || "[http://subversion.apache.org Apache Subversion] is an open source version control system" ||
|| *SDLC Phase* || [SdlcPhases#Development Development] ||
|| *Qualities* || ||
|| *Artifacts* || [Artifacts#Sourcebase Sourcebase] ||
 
===Git===

|| *Description* || "[http://git-scm.com  Git] is a free & open source, distributed version control system designed to handle everything from small to very large projects with speed and efficiency" ||
|| *SDLC Phase* || [SdlcPhases#Development Development] ||
|| *Qualities* || ||
|| *Artifacts* || [Artifacts#Sourcebase Sourcebase] ||

==Unit Testing==

==Server Virtualization==

==System Configuration==

==Documentation==

==Change Management==

==Process Orchestration==

==Test Automation==